---
layout: post
title:  "Initial Outline and scope of video series I'm cooking up"
date:   2018-09-21 8:57:40
author: Zacharias
summary: "Initial Outline and scope of video series I'm cooking up"
---

Working title:
Cloud Delivery Mechanics with Concourse CI, Terraform, and AWS

I want to show Concourse from first principals: that part is under-documented as all get-out and there's a lot of let's call it stupid "133 examples of how to use the same janky Jenkins pipeline to make the same 4 api calls". I'm going to make up a business case for a startup that cares about something in the public web: maybe something like an alerting system for a specific term on a specific website with decent metadata so I can scrape it easy enough with Python? 

Gear Shift:
Contexting switching is expensive, hard, and again, under-rated as an important skill for professional software engineers. I want to show where those things happen explicitly in order to bring a little insight to how many times this needs to happen in practice.

Agile as hell:
Make a working pipeline in the first hour of content. This means that we'll always have this "base pipeline" to do a buncha kind of changes to in order to show the really, really, important part of inflicting change on existing stuff: again, this is underrepresented part where we INCREMENTALLY show a system grow, a use case at a time.

Use the public internet:
Since so many CI tools are enterprise-specific, how do we do get to do the "production grade" thing in the public cloud?

Everything from scatch, with real commits
Show the mechanics of working with source control 

Talking through problems and errors as we go
Literally record myself googling things, I guess.

never talk to anyone on the internet about it
God, I can't imagine how a non-privlidged person handles that.

When I make tech debt, point it out loud.
